A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.
A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.
According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.
Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.
You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.
The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.
The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.
A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).
A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.
While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.
In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.
Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.
The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".
Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.
Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.
People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.
When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.